## UART serial communication
A universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter (UART) is a group of circuitry responsible for implementing  serial communication. When broken down to its fundamental components, the UART acts as an intermediary between parallel and serial interfaces. Communication between devices in this project is executed using UART. UART is one of the most used device-to-device communication protocols. Using only two wires one to receive and one to transmit makes it an attractive method of device to device communication. 

UART is defined as a hardware communication protocol that uses asynchronous serial communication with an independently configurable speed. Asynchronous means there is no clock signal to synchronize the output bits from the transmitting device going to the receiving end. Each UART device has two signals, Transmitter (Tx) and Receiver (Rx). The main purpose of a transmitter and receiver line for each device is to transmit and receive serial data intended for serial communication.The transmitting UART is connected to a controlling data bus that sends data in a parallel form. From this, the data will now be transmitted on the transmission line serially, bit by bit, to the receiving UART. This, in turn, will convert the serial data into parallel for the receiving device through the use of another controlling data bus.The UART lines serve as the communication medium to transmit and receive one data to another. Take note that a UART device has a transmit and receive pin dedicated for either transmitting or receiving which must be taken into account when designing a system. 

For UART and most serial communications, the baud rate needs to be set the same on both the transmitting and receiving device. The baud rate is the rate at which information is transferred to a given communication channel. In the serial port context, the set baud rate will serve as the maximum number of bits per second to be transferred along that line. As stated the UART interface does not use a clock signal to synchronize the transmitter and receiver devices; it transmits data asynchronously. Instead of a clock signal, the transmitter generates a bitstream that is based on the sending device's clock signal while the receiver is using its internal clock signal to sample the incoming data. The point of synchronization is managed by having the same baud rate on both devices. Failure to do so may affect the timing of sending and receiving data that can cause discrepancies during data handling. The common allowable difference of baud rate is up to 10% before the timing of bits gets too far off to be considered usable.

### Data Transmission
In UART communication, the mode of transmission is in the form of a packet. The piece that connects the transmitter and receiver includes the creation of serial packets and controls those physical hardware lines. A packet consists of a start bit, data frame, a parity bit, and stop bits. The UART data transmission line is normally held at a high voltage level. The Start bit is characterised by the transmitting UART pulling the transmission line from high to low for one clock cycle. When the receiving UART detects the high to low voltage transition, it begins reading the bits in the data frame at the frequency of the baud rate. The next five to eight bits form the data frame. If a parity bit is not used it can be expanded to nine bits in length. The data frame contains the actual data being transferred. In most cases, the data is sent with the least significant bit first. 

The Parity of a given value describes the evenness or oddness of a given number. The parity bit is a way for the receiving UART controller to tell if any data has changed during transmission. Bits can be changed by interference from electromagnetic radiation, mismatched baud rates, or long-distance data transfers. This checking process is done after the receiving UART has received and read the data frame. I will count the number of bits with a 1 value and total them before checking if it is an odd or even number. If the parity bit has an even parity (0), the 1 or logic-high bit in the data frame should total to an even number. If the parity bit has an odd parity (1), the 1 bit or logic highs in the data frame should total to an odd number. If the parity bit matches the data, then the receiving UART knows that the transmission was free of errors. But if the parity bit is a 0, and the total is odd, or the inverse is true. The UART then knows that bits in the data frame have changed due to interference. In order to signal the end of the data packet, the sending UART drives the data transmission line from a low voltage to a high voltage for one to two bit(s) duration.

### Steps of UART Transmission
UART transmission can be broken down into five steps. The first step in the process is that the transmitting UART receives data in parallel from the data bus. After that the data is transferred to the Transmitting UART. There the transmitting UART adds the start bit, parity bit, and the stop bit(s) to the data frame. Once the Tx side has finished building the data frame it is then the entire packet is sent serially starting from start bit to stop bit from the transmitting UART to the receiving UART. The receiving UART samples the data line at the preconfigured baud rate. The receiving UART discards the start bit, parity bit, and stop bit from the data frame. The receiving UART converts the serial data back into parallel data and transfers it to the data bus on the receiving end allowing for the receiving system to utilise the data.

## Digital pattern generator
A Digital pattern generator is a commonly used piece of electronic test equipment or software that is used to generate digital electronics stimuli. Digital electronics stimuli are a specific kind of artificially created electrical waveform varying between two conventional voltages that correspond to two logic states ("low state" and "high state", "0" and "1"). The main purpose of a digital pattern generator is to create a stimulus signal that is then fed into the inputs of a digital electronic device. For that reason, the voltage levels generated by a digital pattern generator are often compatible with digital electronics I/O standards – TTL, LVTTL, LVCMOS and LVDS, are a few of the commonly used standards. A digital pattern generator is a source of synchronous digital stimulus; the generated signal is intended to be interesting for testing digital electronics at logic level - this is why they are also called "logic source". A pattern generator is intended to generate electrical pulses of different shapes; they are mostly used for tests at an electrical or analog level. Another common name for such equipment is "digital logic source" or simply "logic source". It is common that a digital pattern generator can produce either repetitive, or single-shot signals in which case some kind of triggering source is required either from an internal source or an externally input trigger. Digital pattern generators are primarily characterized by a number of digital channels, a maximum rate and the supported voltage standards. Digital pattern generators are available in a number of different forms.These can be  stand-alone units, add-on hardware modules for other equipment such as a logic analyzer or as external hardware for PC-based equipment.

The number of digital channels defines the maximum width of any pattern generated - typically, 8-bits, 16-bits, 32 bits pattern generator. For example a 16-bits pattern generator is able to generate arbitrary digital samples from 1 to 16 bits. The maximum rate defines the minimum time interval between 2 successive patterns. For instance, a 50 MHz (50 MSample/s) digital pattern generator is able to output a new pattern every 20 nanoseconds. The supported voltage standards ultimately define the set of electronic devices a digital pattern generator can be used with. Concretely, the voltages and the transition characteristics of the signal at the output of the digital pattern generator will be compliant to these voltage standards. Examples of supported voltage standards have been outlined above. Most digital pattern generators add features such as the ability to generate a repetitive sequence or a digital clock signal at a specified frequency, the ability to use an external clock input and triggering options, to start pattern generation upon the reception of a signal from an external input.


## Pulse-width modulation
Pulse-width modulation (PWM), or alternately known as pulse-duration modulation (PDM), is a method of reducing the average power delivered by an electrical signal, by effectively chopping it up into discrete parts. The average value of voltage (and current) fed to the load is controlled by turning the switch between supply and load on and off at a fast rate. The longer the switch is on compared to the off periods, the higher the total power supplied to the load. Pulse width modulators are a vital and commonly found tool found in industry for control as Pulse width modulation is considered to be a great method of controlling the amount of power delivered to a load without dissipating any wasted power. It is significant due to the fact it allows a digital signal to control analog devices. This is important so as to allow for a comprehensive testing suite. 



## Pseudo-random number generator (LFSR)
A linear-feedback shift register (LFSR) is a shift register whose input bit is a linear function of its previous state. The most commonly used linear function of single bits is exclusive-or (XOR). Thus, an LFSR is most often a shift register whose input bit is driven by the XOR of some bits of the overall shift register value. The initial value of the LFSR is called the seed, and because the operation of the register is deterministic, the stream of values produced by the register is completely determined by its current (or previous) state. Likewise, because the register has a finite number of possible states, it must eventually enter a repeating cycle.

However, an LFSR with a well-chosen feedback function can produce a sequence of bits that appears random and has a very long cycle. The mathematics of a cyclic redundancy check, a form of error-detecting code commonly used in digital networks and storage devices to detect accidental changes to raw data. Blocks of data entering these systems get a short check value attached, are closely related to those of an LFSR. In general, the arithmetics behind LFSRs makes them very elegant as an object to study and implement. One can produce relatively complex logics with simple building blocks. However, other methods, that are less elegant but perform better, should be considered as well.

### Shift Registers
A shift register is a type of digital circuit using a cascade of flip flops, or latch is a circuit that has two stable states and can be used to store state information, where the output of one flip-flop is connected to the input of the next. They share a single clock signal, which causes the data stored in the system to shift from one location to the next. By connecting the last flip-flop back to the first, the data can cycle within the shifters for extended periods, and in this form they were used as a form of computer memory in the late 1960s and early 1970s to replace that form older forms of memory In most cases, several parallel shift registers would be used to build a larger memory pool known as a "bit array". Data was stored into the array and read back out in parallel, often as a computer word, while each bit was stored serially in the shift registers. There is an inherent trade-off in the design of bit arrays; putting more flip-flops in a row allows a single shifter to store more bits, but requires more clock cycles to push the data through all of the shifters before the data can be read back out again.

### Application of LFSRs
Applications of LFSRs include generating pseudo-random numbers, pseudo-noise sequences, fast digital counters, and whitening sequences. Both hardware and software implementations of LFSRs are common. We are interested in an LFSR’s ability to serve as a pseudo random number generator. As complete LFSR are commonly used as pattern generators for exhaustive testing, since they cover all possible inputs for an n-input circuit. Maximal-length LFSRs and weighted LFSRs are widely used as pseudo-random test-pattern generators for pseudo-random test applications due to this feature.
